.\" Manpage for econtrol.
.TH man 1 "26 October 2018" "1.0" "econtrol man page"
.SH NAME
econtrol \- Modify all daemons' parameters or see the state of the cluster's nodes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
econtrol [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION

econtrol is an administration command to manage several parameters of EAR's daemons on a cluster-wide level.

.SH OPTIONS

        --set-freq      newfreq                 ->sets the frequency of all nodes to the requested one
        --set-def-freq  newfreq policy_id       ->sets the default frequency for the selected policy id
        --set-max-freq  newfreq                 ->sets the maximum frequency
        --inc-th        new_th                  ->increases the threshold for all nodes
        --set-th        new_th                  ->sets the threshold for all nodes
        --red-def-freq  n_pstates               ->reduces the default and max frequency by n pstates
        --restore-conf                          ->restores the configuration to all node
        --status                                ->requests the current status for all nodes. The ones responding show the current 
                                                    power, IP address and policy configuration. A list with the ones not
                                                    responding is provided with their hostnames and IP address.
        --ping                                  ->pings all nodes to check wether the nodes are up or not. Additionally,
                                                    --ping=node_name pings that node individually.
        --help                                  ->displays this message.

.SH BUGS
    - No currently known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Lluís Alonso (lluis.alonso@bsc.es)
