.\" Manpage for econtrol.
.TH man 1 "28 October 2020" "3.3" "econtrol man page"
.SH NAME
econtrol \- Modify all daemons' parameters or see the state of the cluster's nodes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
econtrol [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION

econtrol is an administration command to manage several parameters of EAR's daemons on a cluster-wide level.

.SH OPTIONS

    --set-freq      newfreq                 ->sets the frequency of all nodes to the requested one
    --set-def-freq  newfreq policy_name     ->sets the default frequency for the selected policy
    --set-max-freq  newfreq                 ->sets the maximum frequency
    --inc-th        new_th  policy_name     ->increases the threshold for all nodes
    --set-th        new_th  policy_name     ->sets the threshold for all nodes
    --red-def-freq  n_pstates               ->reduces the default and max frequency by n pstates
    --restore-conf                          ->restores the configuration to all node
    --status                                ->requests the current status for all nodes. The ones responding show the current
                                                power, IP address and policy configuration. A list with the ones not
                                                responding is provided with their hostnames and IP address.
                                                --status=node_name retrieves the status of that node individually.
    --ping                                  ->pings all nodes to check wether the nodes are up or not. Additionally,
                                                --ping=node_name pings that node individually.
    --version                               ->displays current EAR version.
    --help                                  ->displays this message.

.SH BUGS
    - No currently known bugs.
.SH SEE ALSO
eacct(1), ereport(1), EAR(8)
.SH AUTHOR
EAR support team (ear-support@bsc.es)
