.\" Manpage for ear_create_database.
.TH man 8 "June 2021" "3.4" "ear_create_database man page"
.SH NAME
ear_create_database \- Creates EAR's databases.
.SH SYNOPSIS
ear_create_database 
.SH DESCRIPTION
ear_create_database creates the base database, tables and users necessary for EAR's database functionality to work properly. In the current version, ear_create_database must be executed from somewhere where the "root" user of the MySQL server the given IP points to has access, if not a permission error will be thrown.

Currently, ear_create_database generates the database "Report" and the user "ear_daemon", which the EAR daemon will use to insert metrics into "Report". 
The database contains the following tables:
    -Applications:  Contains basic information about where the application was executed (node_id) and the id's of the executed job and the final computated application signature.
    -Jobs:  Contains the information about a job execution [user_id, app_id, start_time, end_time], as well as the EAR parameters defined at executon (policy, threshold) and node information (procs, def_f). 
    -Signatures:    Contains the information of an MPI application signature computed and used by EAR.
    -Loops:    Contains the information of an application loop, its identifying characteristics (type of event, size, level and total <iterations), the job it belongs to and the computed signature of the loop.
    -Power_signatures: Contains power metrics of an application.
    -Events: Contains events registered by EAR, such as a change of frequency.

    -Periodic_metrics: Contains information about a node's energy consumption with the purpose of monitoring it.
    -Learning_[]: The databases that begin with the "Learning_" prefix contain the same as their counterparts without prefix, but are used exclusively for the learning phase of the EAR library.

By default, the user "ear_daemon" created by the command will only have INSERT and SELECT permissions and only in the default tables of "Report".

.SH OPTIONS
The only supported option is:
    -p      A password prompt will appear for the admin to introduce root's MySQL password.
.SH SEE ALSO
ereport, eenergy_over_time, estore_database
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
EAR suport team (ear-support@bsc.es)
